Title: Moving towards newer technologeis
Date: 2016-08-27 07:35 PHT
Category: TechTalk
Tags: techtalk, elasticseearch, logstash, ansible, zookeeper, kafka 
Slug: techtalk-elastic
Authors: Eric Van Steenbergen
Summary: Finally implementing today's technology

Finally! I would say: at last! Catching up to what I was used to work with in the past is very satisfying indeed.
Implementing things I've had little experience with previously, is even more addicting than what a junky would call
a good shot up.

Two years ago when I started where I am, I proposed the use of centralized log management and analytical tools
on said logs to work proactive instead of reactive. I'm proud to say that finally that day has come. 

It started out about three months ago after upper management and the business realized that the solution
as advised and implemented by one of the resident seagulls was not 'all covering' and would eventually
come at a very high cost. 

Following this realization I was (t)asked to come up with an alternative. I proposed ELK and got cracking on 
setting up the first in-house centralized log management and analytical tool shouldered by technically skilled
engineers. 

I took of with a simple and straightforward setup of three nodes, got it up and running right before going on 
vacation and handed over to a friend and colleague for further configuration. When I got back after my week of
R&R I got the message that this had now been prioritized and would be used for 'high profile' logs which I 
knew meant lots of volume and traffic. The three node cluster would fail miserably, I knew that up front so
I started rebuilding the cluster with a 9 node setup now, pre-processors and all included.

Next thing you know about one week later my little pet POC project got 'upgraded' to high priority and
required by 'the business'. Once I realized the sheer volume and data would kill my little cluster in a 
heartbeat I designed a high performance, highly available setup with a 17 node environment.

That has been purring along for the last months now and is happily taking in data, currently holding
over 22 TB and receiving an average 750 GB per day! The storage guys don't like me anymore.

Techie stuff and details of the setup to follow in other posts.