Title: The misconception of sudo
Date: 2016-09-01 05:15 PHT
Category: HowTo
Tags: linux, security, howto
Slug: sudo
Authors: Eric Van Steenbergen
Summary: The misconception of sudo in all its glory, or how the 'all' keyword handles it all

It's amazing how I have to fight the continuous battle against the utter disregard of 
technology and security, even against those who consider themselves technically savvy.

At least one person thinks about them being quite the opposite way. When it comes
to what are supposed to be seasoned systems administrators and engineers I would
assume that the 'fear of failure' or the good old 'God complex' feeling supersedes
the logical thinking the same people should demonstrate.

**Fact: sudo is not being used as per design**.... Deny access to every command except those
specifically allowed. 

The way a lot of people, including our historical setup, use sudo is to just track what's
being done on a system by using the 'all' keyword for the command aliases. This takes away 
the purpose of sudo entirely since it opens up the system for any abuse a user might think 
of. 
If the 'all' keyword is used and you still want to implement some security you'll find
yourself constructing command aliases to which you can then deny access after giving 
permissions to run 'all'. 
That particular way of addressing opening the door to everything is a walk down into
the rabbit hole. You will never be able to 'plug' all holes available to technically
savvy people. 

Best practice and security standards worldwide agree, use a technology for what it's 
designed to be used for... Or don't use it at all!

Stop with the stupidity of feeding those who don't know how to do things the normal way
or the ones with the 'God complex'. 
